Hello again you Gloria's got two people in this video all talk about the game state G.D. will make a
brand new script put it right at the top of our level and have it manage the game how why are we doing
this.
Well we're doing this because of something called the Single Responsibility Principle and I've mentioned
this briefly in Looney lips but it goes like this.
A class should only have one reason to change.
This is Robert C. Martin in his article principles of object oriented design which is quite hard to
say.
What does this mean.
It means every script every node should do one thing.
It should only care about the thing it does.
And it should just do one thing at the moment.
Bunnies doing multiple things and child I mean I go to the bunny script right.
We have all these things here apply gravity jump move animate and unhip boost.
All of these relate to movement which makes sense.
Right we have a play a script where the player controls the movement the control Bunny but we've also
got end game and hurt.
And these are about the rules of the game.
I want to move end game and heart out of this script.
This script is just coming about play a movement.
So if we look at a map of what we're doing we've got a gang state script coming in here at Gamestop
G.D. responsible for running the game.
Players can read in the movement an animator is going to be for animating.
So first thing to do is get into gotto and make a brand new script and open at level one.
And I'm going to call this game state to GTA
now.
Why am I not calling Level 1.
Well what if we want multiple levels right.
Each level should have its own name but they're all gonna run from the same script.
Let's create that.
Doing this in levels like what's the levels that's fine as create this here.
OK.
First thing that games is going to track is the amount of.
So lives equals three.
Now I can move this out of here.
Let's just delete it from the player script entirely and we complaints in a minute.
Right.
Because hut has lives in it.
So I'm going to remove line 63 lives minus equals one that's not handled by the player anymore.
And you know what let's comment out 64 and 65.
If lines less than zero end game press control okay and comment that out why am i commenting not deleting
because I need to just keep an eye on this and remind myself I haven't handled end game yet.
All right let's make a function called hurt.
And the first is going to happen when your heart is lives minus equals 1.
And now I'm going to assume that the player is always going to be 1 level below level 1.
Right.
It's not going to be a grandchild.
No one is going to be a direct child.
So I think a player dot out and I'm going to put a comment in here if lives is less than zero.
End of the game.
Just remember to do it.
OK.
Before we go any further something interesting is happening here.
Hazards is going to call hot on the player right.
The only thing you can it can detect is the player but that means game states never going to have this
function.
So I need a way of all hazards or spikes and later all MP pieces to call this.
So what we could do is we could go and connect every single hazard to game state.
I don't really want to do that because if I have to do this manually it's going to get really messy.
So what do we do instead.
Well I'd like to introduce a concept called groups.
Now we talked about this briefly before.
But let me just bring up my Droid hat.
Okay so we've been using signals and signals are wonderful.
So we've got a note here and when something happens it sends a predetermined message to a predetermined
recipient.
So it's like sending a text message spending way too much time trying these things.
However the key here is predetermined right we need to know where everything is and that it's there
and what it's called.
What if we want to connect to lots and lots of different things we could connect the same signal to
two different things that's perfectly doable but what if we don't know how many things are in the same
tree at the same time.
What if we don't know all of them.
What if some of them care and some of them don't.
For this we're going to use a group and a group is not like sending a message on a cell phone or a mobile
phone.
It's like
a radio tower.
We are broadcasting a message.
We are broadcasting a message to anyone who might care.
Now you might want this unless doodling terms a signal is a predetermined message from a known send
it to an end recipient.
A group is a broadcast to anyone who might be listening for it.
So what I'm to do is I'm going to put game state level one here.
I won't put it in a group if you know.
Let's do this in the script so we make more levels I don't have to change a thing.
It's got to function ready and adds to group.
And when I call the script and call this group game states.
So that being a game any node that has this script will be added to the group game state.
OK.
So how do you get this working back into habits instead of body dot hubs.
I'm going to do get 23 core group game states.
So that's the name of the group and a string for what it's going to call.
So call hard now every single hazard will automatically broadcast on the channel.
Game states rights are any node that is a member of this group.
This function if it doesn't have this function it will ignore it which will come in really handy more
complicated games before we go any further.
At the moment we have no way of seeing the life.
So I was going to print lives OK.
So let's see how this works.
That's a jump to a spike.
Two one zero minus one.
Right.
OK.
So that's good.
That's working well now let's fix this bit.
So if lives is less than zero.
And Game 2.
So now we want to make a functional end game
and here's my challenge for you.
I'd like you to move end game from the plant G.D. script to the game state or G.D. script.
Remember we also need to call this if the bunny falls below world limit.
OK.
There's a few ways you can do this but pulls a video.
Give us a shot.
And when you come back I'll show you my solution.
I'm OK Mac.
So first thing I do is I'm going to cut end game and put it in hot
burn because it's gonna do the exact same thing.
Get tree change scene.
Right so that's fine.
How they're now in play.
We're now calling and game and this is what we need to do.
So instead of end game what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go get tree I'm gonna use the group which is set
up right.
Coal Group.
It's gonna be game states
and we are now calling and game.
Let's just double check that's how it smelt and game.
Yeah.
Okay.
So now that should work so first things first jump off the edge and that looks great.
I noticed the spikes.
One two three dead.
Great.
So everything's working.
What we've done now is we've moved everything that isn't motion outside of the player.
It now only reacts to being hurt by moving and playing a sound effect.
We could move this sound effect somewhere else.
For now I'm okay with this and it's got a game state.
Just remove this comment.
Don't need that anymore.
And if we wanted to get another comment we are pure awesome.
I'm not gonna leave this comment in as the kind of thing that really annoys Ben.
I don't get rid of that.
But if you wanted to you could leave it in and that's fine.
Look at that.
We're all done.
We've now made our game site scripts and I say that's and this is a great time to end the video in this
video.
We've looked at the single responsibility principle which for some reason I have a lot of trouble saying
we've decided what behavior each note will track and we've moved end game to the correct script.
Now this is really important we start making larger and larger games.
Right this way every single class every single node will do exactly what we expect and nothing else.
We've also used groups here to make sure we've got some sort of redundancy if for some reason the method
isn't in game state or game state is properly loaded.
The game won't crash it won't do the behavior we want but it'll work just fine.
So we've made a much more robust code so excellent work.
And I'll see you on the next video.